My main individual contribution to the project was as the primary developer for our actual application SageVPN that we would install in the car's infotainment system environment. During my work on this I researched heavily into the inner workings of Android's VPN functionality as well as the structure of network packets that were being sent out and how to handle different network protocols. The main skill I initially identified from my assessment in the Fall was about learning new technologies, as I was completely unfamiliar with mobile/android development and networking was still a new thing for me having only taken the course on it offered by UC during my computer science major. After going through the entire project I was able to build upon those skills by learning a brand new language in Kotlin, and further reinforcing my understanding of networking principles and protocols after going hands-on with it during development.

For actually implementing our application, we fully leveraged Android's built-in VPN API to create an interface that could capture all outgoing network packets from whatever routes we specified. With that, we could analyze the outgoing traffic from within our application to display it in a readable way for the user to know what was going on behind the scenes of their vehicle's infotainment system. From there we then just forward the packet to its original destination, which effectively made our application more of a packet-forwarder rather than a bona fide VPN application since we weren't sending it to a VPN server. Our biggest obstacle remained being the actual packet forwarding step, as we had to completely implement the different handling methods of protocols such as TCP, which can get very complex with all the different requests TCP can have and the multiple steps it takes through making a handshake first. When the packet forwarding wasn't working, the device's internet would effectively be broken when the application was turned on since all traffic was being caught by our app and not being properly sent out to its original destination to maintain network activity. This leads to our biggest success of being able to properly understand these protocols and their network packets, parse them, and send them to these actual destinations where we get a proper response back from those servers.

Our group was able to complete all of the required assignments for senior design over the course of the year while also learning a great deal about the functionality of a car's infotainment environment and how Android works as a whole. We went through all the various steps in completing a project from researching our problem to come up with various solutions, breaking it down into what components will be needed to fully complete the application, and then getting to work to actually bring it to life. For teamwork, this project really highlighted the importance of communication between not just team members but with our advisor as well. During this past spring semester we should've tried to meet much more often with our advisor which would have led to an objectively better final product by being able to constantly get his feedback and work it into our development.

I believe equal efforts were made on the project throughout the semester between us. As the one heading into this without any background in cars or the automotive industry I didn't do as much research on that general background and instead stuck to purely development research regarding existing solutions we could learn from as well as Android's VPN API itself. By combining both of our skillsets together we were able to put together many parts of the application including a working emulator of a modern Honda infotainment system for us to test in and use as a demo environment for the CEAS Expo. Our team did still end up going through adversity towards the end of the project with an illness on the side of my teammate during the week prior to Expo, as well as an issue with the emulator on the day of the Expo itself. Despite these challenges, my teammate was still able to persevere to get our demo environment back up and running and we still managed to put on successful demos of our application and idea for the judges that visited us.