#### Tucker Cook
cook2tc@mail.uc.edu
4/14/25
## Part A:
My main contributions to this project was the idea itself, configuring test environments for our software, both emulated and actual vehicle environment, and ensuring all of our deliverables for expo/course were made. From my fall assessment, I would say I'm much more knowledgeable about various aspects of Android development, how In-vehicle infotainment systems operate, and the networking protocols that dictate the issue our project was trying to address. Most of my course work applicable to this project actually occurred the semester before & during my senior design work, specifically utilizing fundamentals from computer networking and operating systems.

My initial focus was to have our application running inside an actual vehicle environment; however due to our test vehicle having ADB restrictions enabled that I could not feasibly bypass before deadlines, we made the decision to have our application inside an emulated infotainment environment, one which was provided open source by Honda. Our application has the UI elements desired from a typical networking visualization app on android (PCAPDroid among others), however a lot of the functionality of our application in real-world scenarios depended on getting packet-forwarding to work which we weren't able to in time for expo. Essentially, we use Androids VPN service to setup a net for traffic and parse that traffic rather than sending it to a VPN server like a typical VPN service. We were able to add IPs to our blacklist, however, we could not get our packet handling to a point were the packets would reach their destination once blacklisted. We did get this to work for the final report and to present to our advisor.
## Part B:
Overall this is a good step in the right direction for what I wanted to set out to do with this project. It started off as an idea to counteract unfair examples in the automotive sector with regards to user data, however it turned into what I wish to be an all in one networking solution for vehicles going forward. These vehicle will reach their end of service and we will have a bunch of vulnerable vehicles on the road, in addition to our initial complaints about user data being used unfairly. SageVPN has the potential to combat both of these issues which I'm proud of and hope to deploy our application in a vehicle environment and continue to refine the software.

Our group met every deliverable deadline, had a working demo, and met with our advisor-- however we could work our time management and have a more rigid schedule. We could've met with our advisor more frequently and sooner rather than having so much work to do the semester of expo-- it would've given us more time to tackle the packet forwarding issue. In addition the extra time spent would result in more ideas and refinement, an example of this is an idea that came to us during expo of having an automated blacklist feature to detect malicious domains similar to an ad-blocker that we could implement in our project. Ayush deserves recognition for genuinely understanding a lot of the networking concepts & approach needed to get our project off the ground. Sage in my eyes still has a bit to go before I'd really want to use it in my car, this will come with time, but the groundwork is laid for having a solution to problems that will persist and only become more apparent in the very near future.
