#### Professional Constraints
Our project necessitates taking advantage of known security vulnerabilities of an existing system, which requires an elevated understanding of subsystems in the vehicle our project is going to interact with. To maintain professional integrity, under no circumstance will our knowledge of how these systems work come from OEM documentation or personnel, and will strictly be limited to our own discovery and learning of these systems such as the ID and TCU. Our project will use openly available information from various sources outside of the vehicle manufacturer to implement our project, this is to show our respect to companies that made the vehicle and our commitment to learn on our own.
#### Ethical
The philosophy of our project is to take a laissez faire approach to how the user wants to customize the wireless signals sent from their vehicle. Thus, our application enables users of it to inflict harm upon themselves if they chose to disable safety systems of their vehicle such as E911 signals and emergency roadside assistance in the event of a vehicular accident. Warnings and documentation on signals will be provided to users, however it is a design choice to enable said user to do what they want with the wireless signals in their vehicle.
#### Legal
It is legal precedent that tampering with your vehicles electronics, such as the ECU, is legal as long as the vehicle still complies with regulatory constraints by the Federal/State governments. However, customer adjustments to vehicle systems give OEMS, dealerships, and insurance companies to deny warranty and deny coverage. A design goal of our application is to obfuscate wireless signals that may affect insurance coverage of a vehicle if the user desires, this is legal, but the insurance company will have every right to deny coverage if they find out user tampered with vehicle electronics.
#### Security
Our application requires rooting (kernel access) to implement functionality of our application. Though unlikely, it is possible a malicious individual with prior knowledge on systems in our vehicle to wreak havoc by injecting malicious code in the kernel of the Android OS used in the vehicle to monitor user information, or outright make the hardware non-functional/bricked. To prevent this kind of occurrence, we expect users to follow normal behavior and lock their vehicles when away from them, however our application creates increased risk if this behavior is not followed.